README.md, before:

# gitroduction
Yet another beginner guide to git.

## A brief history of version control

The relatively new computer indsutry did not invent version control. It adopted practicies that were well established in industrial manufacturing and design, where complex machines such as aircrafts, tanks, cars required more than one discipline, particularly in the technical drawing of components. Over the engineering process they change the drawings and specifications as required, givin each version of every component a version number.
Software soon followed this process but there were numerous limits at that time e.g they had to use punched cards. The work was treated as if it were a technical drawing. To alter a version, you checked the code in and out as though it were a technical drawing that had to be altered.
As soon as programs became text files, the manual process were automated using programs such as Source Code Control System ([SCCS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source_Code_Control_System)). The technology was there but it was not ready.

**Centralized**

The original version control software was mainframe-based and individual programmers accessed the system via a terminal.UNIX systems were the first to introduce server-based, or centralized version control systems that relied on a single, shared repository. These systems were worked well if the team co-located on the same file-sharing server, they were useless where some of the team were outside the domain. In the mid-nineties, version contorl became network-based but still hosted on a server.

**Distributed**

In the distributed model no single computer held the master copy. The model of Distributed Version Control Systems (DVCS) became mainstream with [BitKeeper](http://www.bitkeeper.org/), followed by [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and [Mercurial](https://www.mercurial-scm.org/) and it made the process of forking, branching and merging far easier.
DVCS do not necessarily rely on a central server. Instead, every developer 'clones' a copy of the repository and has a full history of the project on their own machine. When they get new changes from repository, they 'pull' them. When they commit their own changes they need to 'push' it to make available for the rest of the team.

This section is based on the following article: https://www.red-gate.com/blog/database-devops/history-of-version-control

Commit message:

Add historical info about Git

README.md, after:

# gitroduction
Yet another beginner guide to git.

## [A brief history of version control](https://www.red-gate.com/blog/database-devops/history-of-version-control)

The relatively new computer indsutry did not invent version control. It adopted practicies that were well established in industrial manufacturing and design, where complex machines such as aircrafts, tanks, cars required more than one discipline, particularly in the technical drawing of components. Over the engineering process they change the drawings and specifications as required, givin each version of every component a version number.
Software soon followed this process but there were numerous limits at that time e.g they had to use punched cards. The work was treated as if it were a technical drawing. To alter a version, you checked the code in and out as though it were a technical drawing that had to be altered.
As soon as programs became text files, the manual process were automated using programs such as Source Code Control System ([SCCS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Source_Code_Control_System)). The technology was there but it was not ready.

**Centralized**

The original version control software was mainframe-based and individual programmers accessed the system via a terminal.UNIX systems were the first to introduce server-based, or centralized version control systems that relied on a single, shared repository. These systems were worked well if the team co-located on the same file-sharing server, they were useless where some of the team were outside the domain. In the mid-nineties, version contorl became network-based but still hosted on a server.

**Distributed**

In the distributed model no single computer held the master copy. The model of Distributed Version Control Systems ([DVCS](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Distributed_version_control)) became mainstream with [BitKeeper](http://www.bitkeeper.org/), followed by [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and [Mercurial](https://www.mercurial-scm.org/) and it made the process of forking, branching and merging far easier.
DVCS do not necessarily rely on a central server. Instead, every developer 'clones' a copy of the repository and has a full history of the project on their own machine. When they get new changes from repository, they 'pull' them. When they commit their own changes they need to 'push' it to make available for the rest of the team.

This section is based on the following article: https://www.red-gate.com/blog/database-devops/history-of-version-control

## [Short history of Git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-A-Short-History-of-Git)

The Linux kernel is an open source software with a quite large scope. Until 2002 the changes were passed around as patches and archived files. In 2002 the project began using a DVCS called [BitKeeper](http://www.bitkeeper.org/).
In 2005, the relationship between the community and the commercial company broke down, and the tool's free-of-charge status was revoked. This prompted the Linux community and in particular [Linus Torvalds](https://hu.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linus_Torvalds) to develop their own tool.

Little more about it: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-A-Short-History-of-Git
